# Risk Factors that Causes Road Accidents in Region 4A- CALABARZON
## Introduction
  Road accident happens when there is a concussion between vehicles to vehicles, people, road environment or even animals, which is one of the leading cause of morbidity, damage or loss of properties, and even death. Based on the report analyzed by the World Health Organization (WHO) on year 2018, a lot of people in the Philippines are dying due to road accidents. It doubles the number of incidents from 63,072  to 116,906 in 2018. Road accidents were the 14th leading cause of death in the Philippines but they are the second leading cause of death in terms of non-disease-caused deaths.  As it continous to increase day by day, it is now very alarming and become one of the major public health concern. 
  There are several factors why road accidents occur. It is clearly attributed to the driver’s error or activity. Some of them are driving while under the influence of alcohol or even due to damaged roads and unclear road signages. In the Philippines, traffic is very common especially in Manila since it is considered as the highest traffic index. With this instance, some manufacturing industries were moved to CALABARZON. In relation to this, a lot of people are moving to areas under region 4-A and as result it also increase the number of vehicles which leads to many more possibilities of road accidents. 
  This project is conducted to give and provide information using data analysis that can help to produce an effective plan to determine the factors that affect road  traffic accidents in region 4-A CALABARZON.
## Problem Statement
  Road accidents are the most dreaded thing that can happen to a driver, despite the fact that they occur frequently. The majority of road users are aware of the general guidelines and safety precautions to take while on the road, but it is the road users' own negligence that causes accidents and wrecks. Human mistake is the leading cause of accidents and crashes. Examples of the common behaviour of humans which results in accident are: Over Speeding, Drunk Drivers, Distractions and avoiding safety gears while driving. 
## Significance of the Proposed Project
It is important for drivers and motorheads to know how dangerous it is to be on the road and how many road accidents occur on a daily basis. This can help them be more cautious on the road, and at the same time, make them more compassionate and thoughtful with their fellow drivers. Thus, the researchers firmly believe that the development of this research is deemed significant and will be beneficial for drivers/motorists and for traffic officers or traffic police. This will enable everyone to have a safer and more efficient way of driving and traveling.
This research will help the Department of Transportation and Department of Public Works and Highways in assessing and regulating road accidents and how to further prevent them from occurring. Furthermore, this will also help in assessing the more complicated issues of the road.
This study can also serve as reference for future researchers. The findings of this study can be utilized and could enable the researchers to further develop and contribute more studies and analysis to this research.
## Methods
This study will focus on data about a risk that causes accidents. By creating data about the factors that cause accidents, drivers are aware. The purpose of this study is to look into the elements that influence the criticality of road accidents as reported by descriptive indices like multiple lapses were used to examine the percentage In road traffic accidents, categorical characteristics such as gender and vehicle type have been linked.
## Expected Output
The increasing number of vehicles and more significant traffic volumes lead to many more opportunities for road accidents .Road accidents is now one of the primary causes of death for children and adults. It was ranked as the 8th leading causeof death for all age groups. Vulnerable people bear a disproportionate amount of the burden of road traffic accidents and deaths. road users, where an increasing number of deaths is fueled by increased motorized transportation (WHO, Global Fatality Report) The 2018 Safety Status Report). This study aims to analyze the severity of road accidents victims of the CALABARZON region This study will help to give critical analysis from the contributing and determinant factors, the effects, and its threat to the people and  to bridge the gap by providing knowledge on factors contributing to road traffic accidents.
